!SIL
!S1 okay so this is a fairly cloudy cataract
cystatome enters into the eye the- there's
some hesitancy and starting the scratch
sort of floating about the surface now
contact is made little bit of a
shallow scratch but it did incise the
capsule relatively short it does look
like there's a little bit of a flap
slightly off center so there's also some
issues with the focus the eye is being
fixated with a point one to forceps to
hold it in place perhaps the patient is
moving utrata forceps go into where
that flap was made pretty small okay
let's try again it enters
!SIL
some purposeful contact needs to be made
it's kind of hovering around you can see
the dimpling of the capsule sort of that
circular dimple as it's actually finally
pushed and engaging the capsule and
there's a little tear that happens
!SIL
so waiting for I guess the instrument
maybe some discussion about how best to
propagate the tear so then Utrata
forceps go in this is a bit unusual
using a second instrument to help fixate
the eye but it's holding it in place
then grabbing the flap and enlarging and
rotating as it turns around and sort of
a good position to re grab now so
again the flap wasn't pulled back if it
was pulled back a little bit more it
would have been easier to grab that's
not bad but a little bit closer with a
lot more control because now you're
losing control and so you need to reposit
and grab again
so some torquing of the eye by using
that second instrument there must be
some concern that the control of the
rhexis is poor viscoelastic is being
introduced it looks like through the
paracentesis which certainly it could be
injected through the main wound as well
by injecting it in that angle it
basically allows the flap to push and
now it will actually be easier for the
Utratas to grab it I think there
might be concerned that the rhexis is
running out a little bit that the
diameter is increasing more than it
should so now you can grab the flap and
sort of there's a pushing down and
grabbing motion the alternative would
have been to come from the right hand
side and approach the tear okay so now I
think they're gonna try and pull inward
a little bit to get it a little smaller
yeah a small movement but brought it a
little bit smaller
and now basically pulling it around so again a
fair amount of viscoelastic must be
coming out because I think they're going
to inject a little bit more to stabilize
the chamber the problem is if the eye is
too soft when you're tearing it
especially at this point the rhexis can
run out and enlarge and far- and large
and far greater than you anticipate so
there it's being re grabbed and remember
we started a little bit smaller so
that's why they're sort of making it a
little bit bigger as it turns that
corner the problem is you don't want to
make it too big overall I'd say this rhexis is a little bit bigger than it needs to
be necessarily I mean it depends on what
technique you're using but certainly if
they're aiming for a five point five
millimeter I think it's closer to a six
or six and a half millimeter rhexis so
again here you see that hesitation and
how the initial tear really sets the
tone for the whole rhexis so here at
least a little flap was made but it's a
relatively short diameter and I think
part of the problem in controlling the
rhexis size is it started off too small
then you tried to grab it and make it
too big then you tried to correct it to
make it small again
so if you really do start off in the
right size diameter it controls the sort
of pace and the dimensions of the rhexis
as you finish here it's a good
maneuver to grab either side I would
argue that maybe it's a little bit too
distant from where the flap tear
emanates and so here if we grabbed a
little bit closer there would have been
a little bit more control there's so
much tension that it almost creates this
loose flap so you re grab that and here
the diameter looks to be the right size
but again I I would have regrets owner
and then the surgeon is doing because by
making the flap so long as you're
pulling you start to lose control and I
think that maybe concern that that
spiral edge of the rhexis right here
instead of sort of naturally wanting to
curve back down almost looks like it
wants to curve and continue out a little
bit
so I think that's why more viscoelastic
is being put in to help stabilize the
chamber and make sure that this tear
really propagates at the same diameter
maybe even a little bit smaller than
where it is so that it doesn't run out
!SIL
so Utrata is going in a little
bit of folding of the anterior lip of
the cornea grabbing the flap and so
because the the forceps came almost from
the left going towards the right and
almost pushed down the flap a little bit
more making it harder to grab if they
went in more on the right and then
approached it towards the left it would
have been easier to just grab that flap
so again here there's so much laxity on
where the instrument is pulling which is
over here and where the tear is
happening which is way over here
you worry about loss of control so I
think this is an example where you know
grabbing another three or four extra
times would have allowed better control
of the diameter and the shape of the
rhexis so now it's being pulled out and
hopefully we'll reconnect back to sort
of the intent of diameter so there's
still danger of it running out so you
need to make sure that it pulls all the
way in
!SIL